---
title: "Application of Polarization Holography in Fabrication of Optical Field Manipulation and Detection Devices (Invited)"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-11-08-10-3788-AOSOL240437
excerpt: ''
date: 2024-11-08
venue: 'Acta Optica Sinica (Online)'
paperurl: 'https://dx.doi.org/10.3788/AOSOL240437'
citation: 'Y. Yang, Z. Li,P. Qi, X Chen, T. Ye, j. Wang, X. Yuan, S. Zheng, X. Xu, and X. Tan, Application of Polarization Holography in Fabrication of Optical Field Manipulation and Detection Devices (Invited)[J]. Acta Optica Sinica (Online), 2024, 1(3): 0302001.'
---

Since the inception of holographic technology, its application value has been widely recognized. Among its applications, holographic optical elements have become important optical devices in various research fields due to their compact size, lightweight, and ease of fabrication. As an advanced theory of traditional holography, polarization holography enhances the ability to control the light field by adding the dimension of polarization. Therefore, the holographic optical elements can more comprehensively manipulate the amplitude, phase, and polarization of the light field in the spatial domain. Starting with the principles of polarization holography, we introduce phenomena observable through polarization holography, such as faithful reproduction and zero-order reproduction, which are not seen in traditional holography. Based on these phenomena, we elaborate on the research progress of polarization holography in the fabrication of various light field manipulation and detection devices. Finally, we analyze and forecast the future development trends of polarization holography technology, highlighting key scientific issues worthy of further attention and research.
全息技术自提出以来，其应用价值便得到了广泛的认可。其中，全息光学元件因体积小、质量轻、易制备等特点，已成为各个研究领域的重要光学器件。作为传统全息的进阶理论，偏光全息增加了偏振维度的光场调控功能。因此，所制备的全息光学元件能在空域上更全面地调控光场的振幅、相位和偏振。本文从偏光全息原理入手，介绍由偏光全息得到的忠实再现、零再现等非传统全息可以观察到的效应。基于这些现象，阐述了偏光全息在多种光场调控与探测器件制作方面的研究进展。最后，针对偏光全息技术未来的发展趋势，以及可重点关注和进一步研究的关键科学问题进行分析和展望。
